There are two filters in this package that are based on the Roland
plotter command set.

1. DXY: A simple command set that is used with all DXY plotters

2. RD-GL: This command set is a superset of the HP (Hewlett Packard)
   graphics language however it is compatable with the 7475A command
   set. In fact this version of the hpgl2ps filter has been rewritten
   using the 7475A command hand book.

Not all the commands of DXY or RD-GL (HPGL) are implemented (approx 95%
are) and those commands that are not are skipped and a warning given.
It is very easy to add to this filter if a particular unimplemented
command is desired.

If you wish to implement a command go to the relevant portion in the
command switch "dxycom.c" or "hpglcom.c" and call an appropriate user
written procedure.  (You will need a good knowledge of writing
PostScript programs). Also don't forget to put the procedure name in
the Makefile.

The filters call the procedure "getopt" that is used to interpret
command line options and arguments and is normally available on 4.3 bsd
and Sys V Unix. For those sites running 4.1 or 4.2 it may be available
as a local library and must be written into the Makefile.

IF YOU DONT HAVE GETOPT YOU WILL HAVE REWRITE THE CODE THAT INTERPRETS
COMMAND LINE OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS.

A procedure called "rint" is called in "dxycom.c" and "linetype.c"
if you dont have this call in your maths library then the following
C code will have to be written.

Call the following rint.c (put "rint.o" in the Makefile).

/*-----------Start rint.c------------------*/

int rint(f) double f; 
{return (int)(f + ((f>0) ? 0.5 : -0.5));}

/*------------ End rint.c------------------*/

NOTE 1: The PostScript macros are written into a C procedure to allow
each filter to be a single stand alone program. These macros can easily
be incorporated into other filter programs.

NOTE 2: I have written some test procedures for the testing of each
filter they are "test1.hpgl" for hpgl2ps and "test1.dxy" for dxy2ps.

Don McCormick.

